An Analysis of the Timing of Truck and Car Accidents in a busy Freight CorridorThe objective of this study is to understand the timing of truck and car accidents on a busy freight corridor (I-110 and I-710 freeways) connecting the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach to nearby intermodal rail and trans-loading facilities, and various warehouses. We analyze 16,417 accidents that occurred between 2005 and 2007 on these two freeways in Los Angeles County, California; approximately 14.5 percent of these accidents involved trucks. Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT) data were collected from the Freeway Performance Measurement System (PeMS) to compute hourly and monthly car and truck accident rates for both freeways in both traffic directions. Kolmogorov-Smirnov and Cramér–von Mises tests of goodness of fit were then used to test whether directional accident probabilities are similar or not and whether the risk of an accident is time dependent. We found that the probability of an accident involving only cars is highest after midnight (the peak probability occurs between 1 AM and 3 AM for both freeways) while the probability of an accident involving a truck is highest during mid-day (the peak probability occurs between 8 AM and 4 PM for both freeways). These results have implications for programs that attempt to move truck deliveries during off-peak hours such as the PierPass program implemented by the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach. 1. INTRODUCTIONTruck freight transportation is critical to our prosperity, but it also generates a number of external costs, including accidents, air pollution (especially particulate matter and nitrogen oxides), greenhouse gases, noise, vibrations, and uncovered costs associated with the provision, operation and maintenance of public facilities [1]. It is clearly important for planners and policy makers to quantify these external costs in order to inform policies related to road infrastructure mitigation, expansion and rehabilitation [2]. Truck-related accidents have always been a major safety concern in freeway operations. Unfortunately, these external costs are not yet fully understood.  Figure 1. Study area	The purpose of this paper is to analyze the timing of car and truck accidents in order to understand the potential consequences of shifting truck deliveries from mid-day to after-hours, as was done with the PierPASS program [3] at the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach, for example. We rely on a simple methodology to compute probability distributions for car and truck accidents based on time of day and compare them to detect temporal and spatial patterns. These results are a preliminary step towards the larger research goal of understanding the net benefits of off-peak policies such as the PierPASS program. 2. BACKGROUND AND LITERATURE REVIEWPolicies encouraging shifting freight delivery to off-peak periods have been considered in many urban contexts but they remain somewhat controversial. Several recent studies have highlighted some environmental and health drawbacks of off-peak logistics operations [4, 5, 6]. Off-Peak Logistic Operations The idea of shifting freight deliveries to off-peak hours has been around for a long time: around 45 B.C., for example, the Roman Emperor Julius Cesar banned commercial deliveries during day time, and allowed deliveries only during evening hours, in order to reduce urban congestion [7]. In recent years shifting logistics operations to nighttime has grabbed the attention of policy makers, because this could reduce freight truck trips during peak hours, thus reducing traffic congestion and air pollution. Nighttime off-peak policies are being implemented around the world now to reduce traffic congestion and vehicular emissions [8]. A review of green logistics schemes implemented in various European cities suggests that the main environmental drawback of nighttime delivery is noise pollution generated by freight vehicles and lifting equipment [9]. 	In California, off-peak delivery policies were promoted by Assembly Bill (AB) 2650 in 2000, which encouraged port terminals to adopt gate appointments and off-peak operating hours to reduce idling truck queues at gates [10, 11]. In Southern California the PierPASS Off-Peak program at the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach (also known as the San Pedro Bay Ports, SPBP) was launched on July 23, 2005 to reduce congestion in and around the ports by charging a traffic mitigation fee (TMF) from freight truck movement during peak periods. The traffic mitigation fee charged by the PierPASS off-peak program is $50/TEU (Twenty foot equivalent unit) and $100 for each container larger than 20 ft [3]. Before the PierPASS program, approximately 17 to 21 percent of port traffic moved during off-peak hours; this percentage jumped to 45 percent after the inception of PierPASS in 2005 [3].Truck AccidentsTrucks represent a large proportion of vehicles on freight routes (especially on the I-710 freeway) as they connect the SPBP complex to nearby intermodal rail, trans-loading and warehousing facilities. Heavy truck traffic in our study area (see Figure 1) creates additional accidents and extra air pollution both on freeways and on arterial roads in adjacent communities.A recent study documented port-related truck traffic between the ports and intermodal facility locations; it found that drayage truck volumes on arterials near the SPBP often exceed 600 vehicles per hour and represent up to 42% of total vehicle flow near sensitive locations such as schools, parks and residences [12]. In their 2011 paper, Lee et al. [13] analyzed 7 years of mid-block crashes in an urban arterial road in Canada using log linear models. They found that mid-block crashes are more likely to occur in road sections with access points (>20%) and high truck percentage (>20%). However, only a handful of published studies analyze the timing of truck accidents and their risk between peak and off-peak hours.	Nighttime driving can increase accidents, as visibility is less than during the day time and also due to driver fatigue issues. An older study by Blower et al. [14] analyzed accident data for truck operations in Michigan using log-linear techniques to model accident rates of heavy truck-tractors. For the case of a single tractor pulling a single trailer on a rural freeway, they found that the risk of accident at night is 1.4 times greater, compared to the baseline at daytime. More recently, Golob and Regan [15] analyzed two years of accident data in six Orange County (California) freeways. They calibrated a logistic regression model to estimate truck involvement in crashes using independent variables such as average annual daily traffic (AADT), truck traffic as a percentage of AADT, time of day, and weather conditions. They found that a higher percentage of crashes involved trucks between midnight and 3:00 AM. Fatalities Caused by Truck AccidentsIn 2008, according to the Analysis Division of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA), there were 3733 large truck fatal crashes (2499 crashes between 6 AM and 6 PM and 1234 crashes between 6 PM and 6 AM) that resulted in 4229 fatalities in the U.S. [16]. Moreover, most of these crashes occurred on weekdays (from 16.4 to 17.3 percent). These statistics show that accidents involving large trucks represent a serious safety problem particularly with respect to fatalities. In a 2005 paper, Khorashadi et al. [17] relied on a multinomial logit model to analyze four years of California accident data. They found that multiple unit trucks and large trucks tend to have more severe accidents compared to single unit trucks. It confirmed an older study by Chang and Mannering [18] that analyzed accident data from the state of Washington using multinomial logit models that predict the probability of injury severity; the authors reported that the involvement of a large truck in an accident significantly increases injury severity. More generally, Forkenbrock and Hanley [19] found that conditions like darkness, snow, slush on pavement, the involvement of three or more vehicles, moderate traffic volume, higher speeds, and the involvement of multiple-unit trucks are more likely to result in fatal crashes. A number of studies have analyzed the monetary cost of accidents involving trucks (see [20] and references therein). These accidents can be very expensive: according to an FMCSA report [20], the average cost of an accident with only property damages was $15,114 while the average cost of a non-fatal injury crash was $195,258; by contrast, the average cost of a crash with one or more fatalities jumped to $3,604,518 (all values in 2005 dollars). Accidents occurring during nighttime or during off-peak hours may last longer because incident clearance response units may take longer to respond. Kim et al. [21] analyzed Maryland State Highway accident data to identify the variables influencing incident duration. They found that incident duration increases with the number of heavy vehicles involved and that incidents occurring during night time or during off-peak hours last longer than those occurring during day time due to delay in incident clearance operations. In an older study of over 9000 accidents on freeways in Greater Los Angeles that involved trucks, Golob et al. [22] found that accidents were more severe and lasted longer when they involved trucks being overturned. Having separate truck facilities can improve safety; Lord et al. suggest separating truck traffic from passenger car traffic improves safety on freeways [23]. Nighttime Accident CausesMany nighttime accidents can be attributed to sleepiness. A study on sleep related accidents in the U.K. found time-of-day effects (called circadian effects in human biology terminology) on the timing of accidents. It found 3 major peak periods associated with driving vulnerability: around 2 AM, 6 AM and 4 PM [24]. In the U.S., Park et al. [25] found that accidents occur primarily at two times of day associated with increased sleepiness – during nighttime (between midnight and 7 AM) and during mid-afternoon (around 3 PM), thus confirming the UK results of Horne and Reyner [24]. Lenne et al. [26] confirm that driving performance is affected by time of day and report a peak in poor driving between 2 AM and 6 AM. 	A number of papers have also analyzed the links between truck accidents and geometric design; see for example the two recent papers by Wang et al. [27] and Venkataraman et al. [28]  and the references therein. 3. DATA For this research we requested three years (2005, 2006 and 2007) of accident data from the Highway Safety Information System (HSIS) database maintained by the University of North Carolina Highway Safety Research Center (HSRC) [29]. California accident data is derived from the California Traffic Accident Surveillance and Analysis System (TASAS) and it is incorporated in the HSIS system [30]. TASAS is maintained by Traffic Operations Office of Caltrans (California Department of Transportation). It has two databases: an accident database (individual records in this database contain information like location, time, date, severity, primary collision factor, environmental items, roadway conditions, type of collision, number of vehicles involved, and information on each party involved) and a highway database (It contains information on highway segments, intersections, ramps, access control, AADT) [31]. Our study area (shown in Figure 1) includes two major freeways: the I-110 (31.8 miles long) and the I-710 (24.2 miles long). They connect the San Pedro Bay Ports to nearby intermodal rail and trans-loading facilities and various warehouses. Database obtained from HSIS for the study area freeways are composed of information regarding the attributes of each accident such as: (1) Unique case number, (2) Milepost location of accident, (3) Date and time of accident, (4) Type of accident, (5) Number of vehicles involved, (6) Involvement of truck in accident, and (7) Accident severity. This database also includes information on weather, road, and ambient light conditions. There were 16,417 accidents reported by the California Highway Patrol (CHP) on these two freeways from 2005 to 2007, and 2,386 accidents (14.5 percent) involved trucks. 	To calculate an accident risk (accident per mile traveled), we used vehicle miles traveled (VMT) and truck VMT from the Freeway Performance Measurement System (PeMS) [32]. Summary statistics about truck and car accidents are presented in Table 1. Table 2 shows statistics by accident type for cars and trucks, by freeway.	On I-110 and I-710 most of the accidents (>90 percent for the I-110 and >70 percent for the I-710) involved cars. Moreover, over 25 percent of accidents on the I-710 involved trucks.	On the two freeways we studied, the three most common types of accidents involving cars were (in decreasing order):	Rear ending (I-110 ≈ 53 percent and I-710 ≈ 48 percent of total non-truck accidents);	Hitting an object (I-110 ≈ 20 percent and I-710 ≈ 24 percent of total non-truck accidents); and 	Sideswiping (I-110 ≈ 18 percent and I-710 ≈ 17 percent of total non-truck accidents).  Likewise, the two most common types of accidents involving trucks were: 	Sideswiping (I-110 ≈ 53 percent and I-710 ≈ 54 percent of total truck accidents)	Rear ending (I-110 ≈ 33 percent and I-710 ≈ 31 percent of total truck accidents). Sideswiping and rear-ending accidents are mostly associated with lane-changing and merging behavior.4. METHODOLOGY We developed probability distributions for risks of car and truck accidents on the I-110 and I-710 freeways based on hour, month and traffic direction. Risk is defined here as the number of accident per time period per mile traveled for a specific facility. 	Using the procedure outlined above, we developed probability distributions for car and truck accidents for 2005, 2006, 2007 for both directions and both freeways. Next we used two nonparametric goodness-of-fit tests, the Kolmogorov-Smirnov (two-sample) test and the Cramér–von Mises (two-sample) test, to test the hypothesis that northbound accident probability distributions are similar to southbound accident probability distributions for cars and trucks for both freeways. 	The Kolmogorov-Smirnov statistic “d” and the Cramér–von Mises statistic are based on an empirical distribution function, i.e. these test statistics are distribution-free. Kolmogorov-Smirnov test does not depend on approximations for the distribution, and it is robust because it is nonparametric.  It is also considered more powerful than the standard two-sample  (chi-square) test. However, there are some limitations to the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. Technically, (1) it only applies to continuous distributions; (2) the test statistic “d” tends to be more sensitive near the center of the distribution compared to the tail of the distribution; (3) the distribution must be fully specified; and (4) if location, scale, and shape parameters are estimated from the data then the critical region of Kolmogorov-Smirnov test is no longer valid [33]. The level of significance for the tests used was set to  The null hypothesis for the tests was: H0 = Northbound accidents and Southbound accidents are from same continuous distribution, and the alternative hypothesis for the tests was Ha = Northbound accidents and Southbound accidents are from a different continuous distribution, the results are discussed in the next section.As indicated in the literature review [15], traffic accidents are related to the truck percentage.  To observe hourly and monthly variation of truck percentage we then combined TVMT for northbound and southbound directions for both freeways for all three years5. RESULTS5.1 Goodness of fit testsFrom Table 3, we observe from the results that the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test fails to reject the null hypothesis that northbound and southbound accidents are from different continuous distributions. The Cramér–von Mises tests provide similar results as Kolmogorov-Smirnov test except for I-110 northbound car accidents versus southbound car accidents for the year 2007 (p-value=0.0291), I-710 northbound car accidents versus southbound car accidents for the year 2006 (p-value=0.0432), and I-710 northbound truck accidents versus southbound truck accidents for the year 2006 (p-value=0.0067).Based on the directionality results, we combined northbound and southbound accident data, as well as northbound and southbound VMT data, for both freeways for each year analyzed. Then we repeated the calculation procedure discussed above to derive the accident probability distributions for cars and trucks for both freeways for all three years.   	Figure 4 and Figure 5 shows car and truck accident probability plots for I-110 and I-710 freeways respectively for the 3 years analyzed. We found that the probability of an accident involving cars (but not trucks) is high between 11 PM and 5 AM with a peak occuring between 1 AM and 3 AM for both freeways. By contrast, the probability of an accident involving trucks is high between 6 AM and 6 PM with a peak between 8 AM and 4 PM for both freeways.	Figure 6 and Figure 7 show truck VMT percent contour plots for I-110 and I-710 freeways respectively for the 3 analysis years. We see that in the year 2007 there was low truck activity compared to years 2005 and 2006 because maximum truck VMT percentage in 2007 was approximately 5 percent and 9.5 percent on the I-110 and I-710 respectively. By contrast, in 2005 and 2006, maximum truck VMT percentage was respectively approximately 8 percent and 12 percent on the I-110 and on the I-710 respectively. In 2005 and 2006 Truck VMT percent was found to be high during two time periods of day – (1) Between midnight and 6 AM, and (2) Between 8 AM and 4 PM. Investigation of relationship between car accidents (between midnight and 6 am) and high truck VMT percent (between midnight and 6 am) will enable us to explain the high probability of car accidents between midnight and 6 am. 6. CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE RESEARCHThis paper has presented methodology to compute car and truck accident probability distributions for a major freight corridor in Sothern California. The analysis shows that probability of a car accident is very high during nighttime especially between midnight and 5 am, with highest probability occurring between 1 am and 3 am, whereas probability of a truck accident is high between 6 am and 6 pm, with highest probability occurring around noon. Both car and truck accident distribution seem to be normally distributed with peaks at different times. Results of this preliminary study suggest that truck accidents have decreased slightly since the inception of the PierPASS program (in 2005), so off-peak logistics operations seem to be beneficial from the point of view of accidents. However, a more detailed statistical analysis involving for example accidents on arterials in our study area is needed to confirm these results.	In future work, we will use the accident probability distributions developed in this research in conjunction with microscopic traffic simulation models to quantify delay caused by congestion related to accidents on the I-710 and I-110 freeways. This work is simply a preliminary analysis of accidents that will contribute to a larger study. Statistical models can be developed to correlate Truck VMT% and car accidents at night between midnight and 5 AM. ENVIRONMENTAL AND HEALTH IMPACTS OF SHIFTING DRAYAGE TRUCK OPERATIONS TO OFF-PEAK HOURSAn Analysis of the PierPASS Program in Southern California ABSTRACTThis paper analyses some environmental and health impacts from the PierPASS program, which shifted drayage trucks operations from daytime/peak hours to evening/night hours to reduce congestion and air pollution in and around the San Pedro Bay Ports (i.e. the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach in Southern California). We focus on emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOx) and particulate matter (PM2.5), and some related health impacts, using a framework that integrates microscopic traffic simulation (TransModeler) with emissions estimation (MOVES), pollutants dispersion (CALPUFF), and a health impact assessment model (BenMap). We find that PierPASS slightly reduced traffic congestion outside the Ports, and decreased emissions of NOx and PM2.5 by under 1%. However, PierPASS substantially changed their day-night distributions: at night, emissions of NOx and PM2.5 increased by over 18%, while their daytime emissions decreased by approximately 5%. As a result, PierPASS increased air pollutant concentrations during both daytime and nighttime, even after accounting for changes in truck emissions within the ports, because of atmospheric boundary layer effects. Finally, our health impact analyses show that the implementation of PierPASS without the Clean Truck Program would have increased annual health costs in our study area by over half a billion dollars. Keywords: PierPASS; urban freight; Microsimulation; MOVES; CALPUFF; BenMap; Environmental Impacts; Health Impacts. 1. INTRODUCTIONVarious policies have been proposed to deal with the congestion and the air pollution generated by freight operations, including adopting cleaner vehicle technologies (such as the Clean Trucks Program in Southern California), mandating cleaner fuels, shifting container transport from trucks to trains for long distance travel, or shifting freight deliveries from peak to off-peak hours. The purpose of this paper is to examine some environmental and health impacts of the PierPASS program in Southern California.The idea of shifting freight deliveries to off-peak hours to reduce urban congestion was implemented recently in California to address congestion and air pollution from drayage trucks serving the San Pedro Bay Ports (the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach; SPBP), which is the largest port complex in the United States. Although ships are typically serviced continuously in the United States, drayage operations are limited by terminal operating practices, which usually occur on weekdays during normal business hours. After a failed attempt to reduce truck queues at terminal gates by promoting off-peak deliveries via gate appointments during off-peak operating hours (Assembly Bill 2650, passed in 2000), the SPBP and terminal operators in July 2005 implemented the voluntary PierPASS program. PierPASS extends gate operations and imposes a fee on container moves during regular hours from Monday to Thursday; proceeds from this fee are allocated to terminal operators to offset additional costs associated with extended gate operations (Giuliano and O’Brien, 2008).Using TransCAD and Caltrans count data, Giuliano and O’Brien (2008) found that PierPASS has been successful at containing peak period congestion and at reducing midday congestion in spite of growth in container volumes. However, Sathaye et al. (2009) showed that shifting freight transportation to nighttime disproportionately increases local air pollution because the atmospheric boundary layer is more stable at night than during the day. We note that neither study used microsimulation, so the potential benefits of shifting freight deliveries to off-peak hours are still controversial.In this context, this paper analyzes changes in emissions of nitrogen dioxide (NO2) and particulate matter (PM) and some of their associated health impacts resulting from the implementation of PierPASS because PM and NOx are the main pollutants emitted by heavy-duty port diesel trucks, and almost all NOx at concentrations below 80 µg/m3 transforms to NO2 (New Zealand Government, 2014). Our study area stretches from the SPBP to downtown Los Angeles; it includes portions of several major freeways, and a number of major local arterials where drayage trucks drive past schools, parks, and residences.Outside of the SPBP complex, our methodology combines microscopic traffic simulation (TransModeler) with EPA’s MOVES model to obtain vehicular emissions of PM and NO2, which are then dispersed using CALPUFF, before some of their health impacts are estimated using EPA’s BenMap model. After calibrating our model using a dynamic traffic assignment algorithm for a representative day in 2005, we ran 24-hour simulations for two scenarios: (1) a baseline, pre-PierPASS scenario; and (2) a post-PierPASS scenario obtained by shifting drayage truck traffic from peak to off-peak hours based on observed information.Inside of the SPBP complex, we model changes in emissions using information from the SPBP emission inventory reports (Port of Los Angeles, 2014; Port of Long Beach, 2014) because of a lack of information about truck movements and truck queues at the terminals.The next section provides background information. In Section 3, we summarize our methodology and provide our data sources. In Section 4 we present our results before summarizing our findings and suggesting ideas for future research in Section 5.2. BACKGROUNDThe idea of shifting freight deliveries to off-peak hours has a long history: for example, around 45 B.C., the Roman Emperor Julius Cesar allowed commercial deliveries only during evening hours to reduce urban congestion (Holguin-Veras, 2008). In recent years proposals to shift logistics operations to nighttime have again grabbed the attention of policymakers. Indeed, a number of studies suggest that off-peak policies and nighttime delivery operations can reduce traffic congestion and emissions. For example, a case study in the United Kingdom shows that delivering goods during nighttime and on Sundays reduces air pollution, improves daytime traffic flows, and enhances the effectiveness of deliveries (OECD, 2003).Around the world off-peak policies have being implemented to reduce traffic congestion and emissions from vehicles. Geroliminis and Daganzo (2005) review examples of green logistics schemes implemented in various cities including Paris, Barcelona and Rome. In Barcelona, some boulevards have been dedicated to off-peak deliveries (Dablanc, 2007).In California (especially around the SPBP), off-peak delivery policies were promoted by the passage of California Assembly Bill (AB) 2650 in year 2000, which encouraged port terminals to adopt gate appointments and off-peak operating hours to reduce idling truck queues at gates. Moreover, penalties could be applied to trucks idling in queues for more than 30 minutes (Giuliano and O’Brien, 2007). However, Giuliano and O’Brien (2007) found no evidence that AB 2650 reduced truck emissions.The PierPASS off-peak program was launched on July 23, 2005 to reduce traffic congestion and improve air quality around the SPBP complex. It created two prominent shifts in drayage truck traffic: daytime traffic was reduced and truck trips between 6:00 PM and 1:00 AM increased substantially (Giuliano and O’Brien, 2008). Before PierPASS up to 21% of port traffic moved during off-peak hours, but after the inception of PierPASS, this percentage soared to 45%  (Giuliano and O’Brien, 2008).However, some recent studies (e.g., see Panis and Beckx, 2007, Hu et al., 2009; and Sathaye et al., 2009) have highlighted some environment and health drawbacks of off-peak logistic operations. These studies found that shifting freight transportation to nighttime may disproportionally increase concentrations of local air pollutant because the atmospheric boundary layer is more stable at night than during the day.Panis and Beckx (2007) relied on Gaussian plume dispersion modeling to study the impact on air pollution of shifting the timing of truck transportation activity to nighttime in the port of Antwerp (Belgium); their results indicate that emission concentrations are higher at night than during the day. Hu et al. (2009) studied air pollutant concentration downwind of a segment of the I-10 freeway in Santa Monica during pre-sunrise hours. They report that even though traffic volumes on the freeway during pre-sunrise hours were lower than that during the day, downwind air pollutant concentrations were significantly higher. They attributed this phenomenon to atmospheric stability, low wind speeds, low temperatures and high humidity.The work of Sathaye et al. (2009) is especially of interest here because they accounted for both different metrological conditions at night and for human intake while people are sleeping. They found that moving freight deliveries to off-peak hours would typically increase the 24-hour average exhaust concentrations of critical air pollutants as well as daily human intake. We note, however, that none of these studies relied on microscopic traffic simulation models to estimate emissions caused by the movement of freight trucks.Another reason why restricting peak-period truck deliveries may have unintended consequences is that freight companies may circumvent peak-period restrictions by using smaller vehicles, thus increasing environmental impacts and traffic congestion, as illustrated by Los Angeles’ attempt in 1991 to regulate large truck movements during peak hours (Campbell, 1995). More recently, Quak and de Koster’s (2009) study in the Netherlands found that time windows and vehicle restrictions (vehicle size and type) likely increased emissions of PM10, NOX, and CO2.Another environmental drawback of off-peak delivery is noise pollution from logistic operations at night (OECD, 2003). In Barcelona for example, concerns about noise pollution during nighttime deliveries motivated the requirement that trucks be equipped with anti-noise systems (Geroliminis and Daganzo, 2005). However, this paper does not consider the impacts of noise related to off-peak deliveries.3. DATA AND METHODOLOGYTo analyze the environmental impacts of shifting freight deliveries to off-peak hours, we combined TransModeler (Caliper Corporation, 2012a), a microscopic traffic simulation model, with the EPA’s MOVES emissions model (U.S. EPA, 2010). We then relied on CALPUFF (Lakes Environmental Software, 2014) to disperse emissions of PM and NO2 before analyzing some of their health impacts using BenMAP–CE (U.S. EPA, 2013).3.1 Traffic SimulationTo capture the impact of traffic dynamics on air pollutant emissions, we selected the microscopic traffic simulator TransModeler 3.0 because it offers a number of advantages over other available microscopic traffic simulators. First, it is versatile: it can simulate a wide range of road types and traffic conditions while accounting for traffic signals and ITS operations. Second, TransModeler works seamlessly with TransCAD (Caliper Corporation, 2012b) and with Geographic Information System (GIS) data, both for inputting network information and for visualizing results. Third, it generates vehicle trajectory data that are easy to process to estimate the emissions of various air pollutants. Finally, using TransModeler allowed us to extend the road network created during previous work (Lee et al., 2012).3.1.1 Study Area and Network DataOur study area, which extends north of the SPBP complex, is shown on Figure 1. Our starting network had 289.2 miles of freeways and 140.7 miles of arterials. We expanded it to 314.4 miles of freeway and 281 miles of arterials by adding parts of the I-405 as well as a number of arterial segments west of the I-110, north of the S-91, and east of the I-710.Freeway and arterial layouts were extracted from a GIS layer provided by the California Department of Transportation (Caltrans) and basic freeway characteristics (e.g., number of lanes and speed limits) were obtained from Caltrans’ freeway Performance Measurement System (PeMS) (Caltrans, 2014). Additional geometric details were extracted from the TerraServer and from Google Earth maps.Latitude and longitude data for each detector in our study area were collected from PeMS and entered in a GIS layer. Likewise, ramp metering controls - located using Google Earth’s street view - were entered in a GIS layer. Since we could not obtain detailed information about freeway ramp metering from Caltrans, we set freeway ramp meters to release up to one vehicle per lane every two second (1800 vehicles per hour and per lane).Arrival volumes and signal operations data were collected from traffic engineers working for Los Angeles County or for some of the cities in our study area (Carson, Lomita, Long Beach, Los Angeles, Lynwood, Rancho Palos Verdes, Rolling Hills Estates, and Torrance). Based on information provided by local traffic engineers, most traffic signals were modeled as actuated signals. For signalized intersections without traffic signal data, signal timing was assumed to be similar to the timing of nearby locations; moreover, signal timing parameters were manually adjusted to smooth traffic patterns during simulation. At intersections with no traffic signals, stop or yield signs were installed based on information from Google Earth.Since performing iterative dynamic origin-destination demand estimations and calibrating network supply characteristics is very time consuming, we did not attempt to simulate traffic for multiple days. As in Lee et al. (2012), March 9th, 2005 was selected as a typical weekday. We then simulated traffic for 24 hours, from 12:00 AM to 11:59 PM, with the first 30 minutes serving to load traffic onto the network. A 24-hour simulation is much longer than microscopic simulations typically attempted in traffic operations studies.3.1.2 O-D EstimationInitial origin-destination (O-D) demands were obtained from a Southern California Association of Governments traffic study (SCAG, 2008a-b) that combined data from a SCAG Regional Transportation Plan with stated drayage truck demand data from a survey conducted for the Port of Long Beach. A sub-area analysis using TransCAD 5.0 was conducted to prepare the initial O-D demand profiles by re-distributing O-D trips on the target area abstracted from the original SCAG network.These O-D demands were then adjusted to match traffic volumes observed from PeMS in 15 minute intervals based on 147 freeway mainline loop detectors, 86 freeway ramp detectors, and 121 arterial detectors. Since PeMS traffic data were available neither on the I-710 south of the I-405 nor on arterials, we relied on AADT data provided by Caltrans and local traffic engineers. These AADT data were distributed in 15 minute increments first based on TransCAD’s traffic distribution (by time period: morning peak from 6 AM to 9 AM, midday from 9 PM to 3 PM, evening peak from 3 PM to 7 PM, and nighttime) and then based on local simulation results while conserving total AADT.Since automated traffic counts are not available for arterials, we combined bidirectional traffic count data provided by the Los Angeles Department of Transportation, local traffic engineers, and the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach. A portion of the data included counts based on intersection movements: through, left turn, and right turn. For intersections without such data, we assumed turning flow fractions similar to those of nearby locations.To perform O-D estimation, we relied on the dynamic algorithm described by Choi et al. (2009) because this approach can generate more realistic congestion dynamics than static O-D estimation, which is important for correctly estimating vehicular emissions. To our knowledge, this project had among the largest truly dynamic O-D trip tables ever estimated in an urban area simulation, with 96 time periods of 15 minutes each for 449 zones over 24 hours, and a total demand of over 3.7 million vehicles.  Each simulation run of our network over 24 hours, along with the associated OD flow update step following the processing of vehicle trajectory files, took nearly a day. Thus completing the OD estimation in a reasonable number of iterations was very important here.To achieve convergence in a timely fashion, we developed a new method that expands O-D matrices from an embedded smaller network for which OD estimation was done earlier by Lee et al. (2012). As our starting network was well-calibrated, we focused on developing OD patterns that matched traffic in the areas added to the network after fixing the already-converged OD matrix for the starting network; for details, see Bhagat et al. (2014). To our knowledge, such a method has not been applied previously for dynamic OD estimation.3.1.3 Goodness of fitAs argued in Lee et al. (2012), emission studies should focus on simulating representative levels of congestion with transient queue formation, dissipation, and stop-and-go conditions over an entire network.  Following current accepted practice and FHWA recommendations (Dowling et al., 2004), we relied on the Geoffrey E. Havers (GEH) statistic to assess simulation results. The GEH statistic is a modified Chi-squared statistic that considers differences between observed and simulated traffic counts. For a given link, it is defined by: 	 					   (1)where M and S respectively represent observed and simulated traffic flows in vehicles per hour.To further assess the match between simulated and observed freeway traffic, average speeds from simulation were compared with PeMS speeds at different times and for a range of links. For arterial roads, simulated average speeds were sampled to ensure their plausibility.3.1.4 ScenariosTo study the environmental impacts of PierPASS, we considered two scenarios: (1) A pre-PierPASS scenario based on a 2004 temporal distribution of drayage truck trips, which reflects port drayage trucks operations before the implementation of PierPASS; and (2) A post-PierPASS scenario based on a 2007 temporal distribution of drayage truck trips (Giuliano and O’Brien, 2008) that reflects the shift in port drayage trucks that followed PierPASS.We then applied each truck distribution to our 96 15-minute O-D matrices for each O-D related to port zones, while conserving the total number of Port trucks traveling on each O-D during the 24 hours of a simulation.3.2 Emissions estimationTo take advantage of second-by-second vehicular speeds and accelerations provided by microscopic simulation, a microscopic emission model is necessary. This rules out macroscopic models such as EMFAC 2007, although it is required for regulatory work in California.Three main microscopic emission models are currently available in the U.S.: VT-micro, from Virginia Tech (Ahn et al., 1999); CMEM, from the University of California, Riverside (Scora and Barth, 2006); and MOVES (U.S. EPA, 2009). Since VT-micro does not account for vehicle model year and CMEM cannot estimate PM emissions, we chose MOVES for this study.MOVES offers three approaches for estimating vehicular emissions at the project level: 1) link average speed; 2) link driving schedule; and 3) vehicle operating mode (OpMode). The link average speed approach is attractive because of its simplicity but it fails to capture specific vehicle interactions in congested conditions. The link driving approach can compute emissions from second-by-second vehicle trajectory data but it is computationally very demanding for large networks. We therefore adopted the OpMode approach, which relies on modal binning based on vehicle specific power (U.S. EPA, 2009), and on vehicle speeds and accelerations from second-by-second trajectory data. The OpMode approach therefore allows estimating emissions from stop-and-go traffic conditions, but its computational requirements are much lower than those of the link driving schedule approach if, as suggested by Claggett (2011), look-up tables are used, which was done in this study.To calculate emissions, we had to reconcile vehicle categories in TransModeler (five categories) and in MOVES (16 categories). We relied on random drawings from a uniform distribution for each vehicle type to match the distribution of vehicles in the study area. Distributions of vehicle types, model years, and fuel type for Los Angeles County were extracted from EMFAC following the approach recommended by Bai et al. (2008). We also collected data about the fleet distribution of drayage trucks from the Port of Long Beach (Port of Long Beach, 2007).3.3 Pollutant DispersionTo study the dispersion of air pollutants generated via MOVES we used CALPUFF View 7.0.5, a commercial version of CALPUFF. It has three components: CALMET (a 3-D meteorological model), CALPUFF (a transport and dispersion model), and CALPOST (a post-processing module). We chose this software because it allows dispersion modeling under dynamic meteorological conditions, it accounts for complex terrain, and it calculates pollutant concentration for a wide range of time-scales.3.3.1 Geophysical DataTerrain, land use, and land cover data, which are needed to develop hourly wind and temperature fields on a three dimensional grid in CALMET were provided by U.S. DEM 1 Degree terrain data (coverage area of 1 by 1 degree blocks with approximately 90 by 90 meter resolution). For land use and land cover, which give information about major classes of land use, vegetation, water, natural surface, and cultural features, we used U.S. Geological Survey (U.S.G.S) Composite Theme Grid (CTG) land use data with a 200 meter resolution.3.3.2 Meteorological DataOur meteorological data come from 2005 CALMET-Ready MM5 data developed by Penn State/National Center for Atmospheric Research, which we purchased from Lakes Environmental. The MM5 dataset contains wind field data used for creating weather forecasts and climate projections. 3.3.3 Temporal AnalysisPollutant dispersion analyses were performed for four seasons (quarters in fact) and for day-time versus night-time to account for variations in meteorological conditions and in exposure. We assumed that health impacts are driven by long term average exposure to pollutants. The two daily periods for aggregating hourly concentrations of pollutants are nighttime (from midnight to 7 am and from 7 pm to midnight, for a total of 12 hours) and daytime (from 7 am to 7 pm, for another 12 hours).For each sampling receptor in our study area, we used CALPUFF to estimate hourly concentrations of NO2 and PM2.5 for each day of 2005 for both Pre and Post-PierPASS scenarios. We also calculated average nighttime and daytime seasonal pollutant concentration before and after PierPASS during various time periods at different sampling receptors.3.4 Health ImpactsFor appraising the health impacts associated with PierPASS, we relied on BenMAP-CE, which is a GIS-based program developed by the U.S. EPA (2013) to calculate benefits and costs of air pollution regulations. BenMAP proceeds in three main steps: 1) it calculates air pollutant concentration changes resulting from a control scenario with respect to a baseline scenario; 2) it then combines this information with gridded population data to estimate the resulting health incidences using concentration-response functions (C-R functions); and 3) it calculates the monetary value of these health impacts by applying valuation functions.3.4.1 Health EffectsBenMAP uses concentration-response functions (C-R functions) derived from epidemiological studies to estimate health impacts. The relationship between the concentration of a pollutant, x, and the population response, y, is the concentration-response function, which can be written:	 	(2)where Δy is the change in incidence rate between a baseline (y0) and a control scenario (yc); β is a risk coefficient derived from epidemiological studies; ∆x is the corresponding change in air pollutant concentration; and Q is the exposed population.Conceptually, BenMAP calculates health impacts as the product of four terms (U.S. EPA, 2012): 1) a change in air quality, which is the difference between a baseline and air pollution concentration after a change, induced for example by a new policy; 2) a health effect estimate, which is the percentage change in an adverse health effect resulting from a unit change in ambient air pollution; 3) the size of the exposed population; and 4) an estimate of the average number of health effects per person per unit time.3.4.2 Economic Valuation of Health EffectsBenMAP offers several approaches for estimating the economic value of avoided health effects. For avoided mortality, it uses the value of a statistical life (VSL), which represents people’s willingness to pay to reduce the risk of death. For other health effects, BenMAP relies on medical costs of related illnesses (U.S. EPA, 2012). The value of a given health outcome is then calculated by multiplying the number of cases by the unit value of this outcome.3.4.3 Population and Air Quality DataFor estimating changes in population exposure to PM and NOx we relied on block-group level demographic data for Los Angeles County. We used the PopGrid program (U.S. EPA, 2012) to construct specific population grids matching the age, race, ethnicity, and gender of the population of Los Angeles County based on 2010 data because they are readily available and the population of Los Angeles County did not change much between 2005 and 2010 (it only grew 0.15%, from 9,803,912 to 9,818,603). 3.4.4 PM2.5 and NOx Health Impact FunctionsTo analyze the health impacts resulting from the implementation of PierPASS, we focused on NO2 and PM2.5. For PM2.5 exposure, we analyzed on mortality, chronic bronchitis, asthma exacerbation and hospital admissions due to cardiovascular and respiratory related symptoms. The risk coefficient or beta values for the corresponding health impact functions were derived from various epidemiological studies conducted in Los Angeles (for details, see Bhagat, 2014.) For NO2, we analyzed hospital admissions due to respiratory health end point asthma; unfortunately, we could not find relevant epidemiological data for other health impacts.3.4.5 Valuation FunctionsFor valuing health endpoints, we used EPA’s Standard Valuation Functions available in BenMAP-CE. For PM2.5 mortality, the value of a statistical life is approximately normally distributed between $1 million and $10 million. For the other PM2.5 exposure health endpoints and for NO2-related asthma we used valuation functions based on cost of illness derived from medical costs and wages/earnings lost. Finally, for PM2.5 asthma exacerbation, we relied on a symptom day willingness-to-pay function based on Dickie and Ulery (2002).3.5 Impacts from within the SPBP complexSince PierPASS was created to a large extent to relieve congestion at SPBP terminals, it is important to try to quantify its impacts on emissions within the SPBP complex. Unfortunately, detailed truck movement and queueing data within the SPBP complex are not available, so to gain at least an understanding of the impacts of PierPASS, we used emissions inventory data (“on-terminal” and within port “on-road” emissions) for nitrous oxides and particulate matter released by drayage trucks in the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach provided by each port’s annual Air Emissions Inventories. Since there were no emission inventories for 2004, we used 2005 emissions as our baseline, which enhances compatibility with the rest of our analyses. To capture the full impact of reduced terminal queues due to PierPASS, we relied on 2007 emission inventories for the Post PierPASS case, which we scaled by the ratio of containers handled in 2005 divided by the ratio of containers handled in 2007 in each port.  Total annual emissions were then divided by the number of calendar days in the year and resulting daily emissions were distributed both in space and in time (hourly).Based on the location of container terminals, ten area sources of emissions were identified in the Port of Los Angeles, and nine area sources in the Port of Long Beach. Total emissions in each port were distributed based on the surface of each area source because reliable information about the emissions of each source was not available.For the pre PierPASS case, hourly emissions were assumed to be proportional to the hourly distribution of trucks entering the ports between 8:00AM and 5:00PM. For the post PierPASS case, emissions were assumed to follow the 2012 truck distribution which recorded truck activity at all hours between 7:00AM and 3:00AM.The rest of our analyses for emissions within the SPBP complex is similar to the analyses performed for the study area outside of the SPBP complex. Since this analysis is much cruder than for our study area outside the SPBP complex, we present results separately.4. RESULTS4.1 Microscopic Traffic Simulation ResultsBoth pre- and post-PierPASS scenarios involved over 3.56 million light duty vehicles, 0.05 million light duty trucks, 0.039 million medium duty trucks, 0.048 million heavy duty trucks, and 0.056 million heavy duty port trucks, for a total of approximately 3.75 million vehicles. Of that total, 5.2% were trucks, 28.8% of which were port trucks. For comparing traffic results for both scenarios we considered three performance measures: vehicle miles traveled (VMT), vehicle hours traveled (VHT), and average vehicle speed over the entire network. A summary of traffic simulation results is presented in Table 1.From Table 1, we note some very small differences between the Pre-PierPASS and the Post-PierPASS cases: for the latter, there were 0.01% more vehicles on the road overall during the simulation, but VMT and VHT both decreased slightly (by 0.07% for VMT and 0.25% for VHT). The reason for the slight decrease in VMT even though a few more vehicles traveled after PierPASS is that fewer vehicles were rerouted to avoid congestion. This is also reflected in the slight decrease in VHT and the slight increase in average speed for all vehicle categories (+0.17 mph), which benefitted both light duty vehicles (+0.16%) and trucks, although not port trucks because they already had the highest average speed on our network (these numbers are valid only on our road network outside of the ports so they do not reflect the likely reduction in congestion inside the SPBP that likely resulted from PierPASS).These average speeds are relatively high because of the large number of miles travelled on freeways and the limited congestion on our network, which correspond to ideal conditions because there was no vehicular accident on our network. A cursory analysis of accidents in our study area showed that there is at least one serious road accident almost every day, which contributes to both congestion and air pollution. Ignoring accidents, our Post-PierPASS simulation thus provides an upper bound on the potential benefits of PierPASS.4.2 Emission Estimation ResultsA summary of emission results is presented in Table 2. Simulation results show that approximately 87.3% (=38.837/44.494) of NOx emissions and 76.4% (=1356.137/1776.016) of PM2.5 emissions took place on freeways before PierPASS, versus 87.2% (=38.623/44.284) and 76.2% (=1344.187/1763.941) after PierPASS. The main impact of PierPASS, however, was to shift emissions from daytime to nighttime: nighttime emissions of NO2 and PM2.5 increased by 18.7%, while daytime emissions decreased by 5.0%. As expected, this shift is almost entirely due to heavy duty port trucks, which are responsible for almost half of total emissions of NO2 and PM2.5 in our study area. PierPASS decreased their daytime contributions to the emissions of these 2 pollutants by approximately 9% but it bumped up their nighttime contributions by 68.55% for NOx, and by 69.35% for PM2.5.Overall, PierPASS had a modest positive impact on the emissions of NOx and PM2.5 (they decreased 0.47% and 0.68% respectively) and on vehicular speeds (which increase by approximately 0.1 mph or 0.17%), but the average daily concentrations of these pollutants increased in our study area, along with their corresponding health impacts, as explained below.4.3 Pollutant Dispersion ResultsFor our dispersion analysis, we consider a square grid of 37 miles x 37 miles with 1369 equally spaced sampling receptors, so each receptor is at the center of a one square mile cell. The top part of Table 3 presents average seasonal concentrations for NO2 and PM2.5 at these receptors both before and after PierPASS; the bottom part of Table shows areas where seasonal averages increased by at least 1 μg/m3 for PM2.5 and by at least 30 μg/m3 for NO2 after PierPASS compared to before PierPASS.Starting with the top half of Table 3, we first note that the creation of PierPASS led to an increase in average seasonal concentrations for all seasons and for both NO2 and PM2.5. This seemingly counter-intuitive result is due to an atmospheric boundary layer effect, i.e., to pollution left over from the previous night when the atmospheric boundary layer is stable. Since the pollution generated at night tends to linger, it adds to the pollution generated the next morning, resulting in a net increase in the concentration of pollution; everything else being the same, this increase is higher in the fall and lower in the summer.The bottom half of Table 3 shows the extent of areas where NO2 concentrations increased by more than 30 μg/m3 on average during a season, and where PM2.5 concentrations increased by more than 1 μg/m3 on average during a season (both thresholds were selected for convenience). As expected, this increase is largest at night (compare to daytime) and during the fall for both NO2 and PM2.5; conversely, it is smallest during the spring for both day and night for NO2, and during the summer at night and the spring during the day for PM2.5. Most of the areas where pollutant concentration exceeds the thresholds are located in the vicinity of SPBP ports, south of the I-405 and between the I-110 and the I-710). We note that toward the edges of our study grid (away from emission sources), pollutant concentrations decreased slightly after PierPASS compared to before because pollutants were not transported there as readily as before PierPASS.For brevity, we do not cover the dispersion results for sources within the SPBP complex, which were estimated on the same grid as for the road network sources in our study area.4.4 Health Impact ResultsFor our pollutant dispersion analysis, we assumed hourly emission rates from port trucks to be constant over the year, although under PierPASS off-peak shifts take place four nights per week (Monday through Thursday from 6:00 p.m. to 3:00 a.m.) with an additional shift on the weekend (Saturdays from 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.), for a total of 5 off-peak shifts per week. To account for the lack of 2 off-peak shifts during a week, we followed (Lee et al., 2012) and scaled down health impact results by a 5/7 factor.Table 4 summarizes aggregated health impacts from PM2.5 and NO2 exposure for health outcomes for which epidemiological information is available for our target population (Los Angeles County residents). All results are in 2010 dollars and the average value of a statistical life in 2010 is approximately $6.95 million. It shows that the combined health costs of PierPASS exceed $438 million annually and are driven by excess mortality resulting from exposure to PM2.5, with just under 63 cases per year on average representing close to $434 million and over 99% of estimated health costs. Chronic Bronchitis is a distant second with 57.3 extra cases and an annual cost of $1.12 million. However, the health outcome associated with PierPASS that affects the most people is asthma exacerbation with an extra 2585 cases annually from exposure to PM2.5, and 63.2 additional cases annually from exposure to NO2. In addition, because of changes in meteorological conditions, the largest impacts of PierPASS are experienced during the fall season with 47% of estimated health costs, and the smallest health impacts are experienced during the spring with only 12.4% of estimated health costs. Note, however, that only the magnitude of these numbers is meaningful because our models do not reflect seasonal variations in drayage truck activity. Moreover, our calculations do not cover all possible health outcomes or all age groups because of limitations in available epidemiological data.Table 5 summarizes the aggregated health impacts from PM2.5 and NO2 exposure resulting from PierPASS for the same health outcomes as Table 4 but resulting from sources within the SPBP complex. It shows health costs in excess of $96 million annually, which are again overwhelmingly driven by excess mortality resulting from exposure to PM2.5 (13.7 cases on average per year). As in Table 4, asthma exacerbation affects the most people, with an extra 548 cases from exposure to PM2.5.Overall, combined annual health costs from PierPASS exceed half a billion dollars at 2005 levels for ports activity.5. CONCLUSIONSThe objective of this study was to estimate some environmental and health impacts of the PierPASS program, which was implemented in 2005 at the SPBP complex to mitigate the congestion and air pollution resulting from freight operations. Our study area extends from downtown Los Angeles to the SPBP complex. To obtain better estimates of congestion and of air pollutant emissions outside of the SPBP complex, we combined a microscopic traffic simulation model (TransModeler) with EPA’s MOVES model. After calibrating our model using a dynamic traffic assignment algorithm for a representative day in 2005, we ran 24-hour simulations for two scenarios: (1) a baseline, pre PierPASS scenario; and (2) a post-PierPASS scenario obtained by shifting drayage truck traffic from peak to off-peak hours based on observed data. Vehicular emissions of NO2 and PM2.5 were then generated from detailed vehicle trajectories using MOVES, dispersed using CALPUFF, and the resulting health impacts were estimated using EPA’s BenMAP model. To our knowledge, our paper is the first one to analyze a major shift in freight delivery using this approach. Since the benefits of PierPASS likely resulted in a decrease of pollution within the SPBP complex, we relied on annual emission inventories conducted by the ports (scaled for container traffic) to quantify the impacts of PierPASS within the ports.We found that PierPASS had a small positive impact on congestion in our study area outside the ports and decreased the emissions of pollution of NO2 and PM2.5 by under 1%.  However, it caused a large shift in the patterns of daily emissions with a 18.7% increase in nighttime emissions of NOX and PM2.5, and a 5% decrease in daytime emissions of these pollutants outside the ports. Because of boundary layer effects, these shifts increased pollutant concentrations both during nighttime and daytime. Without the implementation of the Clean Trucks program (see Lee et al., 2012), this shift would have led to an increase in health costs for local residents in excess of half a billion dollars (primarily from excess mortality due to PM2.5 exposure), even after accounting for changes in drayage truck emissions within the ports.There are several limitations to our study. First, our microscopic traffic simulation model considers only a representative day without traffic disruptions caused by accidents. Thus possible changes in emissions and health impact caused by accidents resulting from shifting port truck deliveries from day-time to night-time are not captured. Second, our analyses of emission changes within the ports are crude because of a lack of information about trucks movements within the ports before and after PierPASS, which forced us to rely on emission inventories adjusted for container traffic but distributed in a naïve way because of limited information about the sources of emissions within the SPBP complex. A third limitation is the lack of epidemiological data for mortality due to PM2.5 exposure for people under 30 years in Los Angeles County, and very limited epidemiological results for NOx exposure. Addressing these limitations is left for future work. 